Data mining is widely used in educational field to find the problems arise in this field. Student performance is of great concern in the educational institutes where several factors may affect the performance. For prediction, the three required components are: Parameters which affect the student performance, Data mining methods and third one is data mining tool. These parameters may be psychological, personal, and environmental. Different methods and techniques of data mining were compared during the prediction of students' success, applying the data collected from the surveys conducted during the summer semester at American International University-Bangladesh, the Department of Computer Science, academic year 2017-2018, among the students of Theory of Computing and Compiler Design. The success was evaluated with the passing grade at the exam. The impact of students' socio-demographic variables, previous academic records, achieved and attitudes towards studying which can have an effect on success were all investigated. In this paper, prediction of student performance is done by applying Naïve Bayes, Multilayer Perceptron and J48 Decision Tree classification techniques using WEKA tool. By applying data mining techniques on student data, we can obtain knowledge which describes the student performance. This knowledge will help to improve the education quality, student’s performance and to decrease failure rate. All these will help to improve the quality of institute. The experimental result shows the Multilayer Perceptron is the best model among the other techniques by receiving the highest accuracy value of 92%. The extracted knowledge from prediction model will be used to identify and profile the student to determine the students’ level of success in the semester.
